README.md, before:

# 🚀 Exploring FastAPI Features Extensively

Welcome! This repository is a comprehensive exploration of the **FastAPI** web framework. Here, you'll find practical examples and best practices for building robust, high-performance APIs with FastAPI.

## 🌟 Key Features Demonstrated

- **Request validation** with Pydantic models
- **Dependency injection** for modular, testable code
- **Middleware** for request/response processing
- **Asynchronous route handling** for high concurrency
- **Authentication & Authorization** (OAuth2, JWT)
- **Background tasks** for non-blocking operations
- **WebSockets** for real-time communication
- **CORS handling** for secure cross-origin requests
- **API versioning** strategies
- **Integration with external services** (databases, third-party APIs)
- **Custom exception handling** for better error management

You'll also learn how to **run the app locally**, **containerize it with Docker**, and **deploy it on Kubernetes**.

---

## 🧪 Running the App Locally

1. **Create a virtual environment:**

    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
    ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. **Start the FastAPI server:**

    ```bash
    uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload
    ```

4. **Access the interactive API docs:**
    - [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8000/docs)
    - [ReDoc](http://localhost:8000/redoc)

---

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

1. **Build the Docker image:**

    ```bash
    docker build -t fastapi-app .
    ```

2. **Run the Docker container:**

    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8000:8000 fastapi-app
    ```

3. **Access the app in your browser:**
    - [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)

---

## ☸️ Kubernetes Deployment

1. **Create a Kubernetes Deployment and Service**

    Save the following YAML as `k8s/deployment.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: fastapi-deployment
    spec:
      replicas: 2
      selector:
         matchLabels:
            app: fastapi
      template:
         metadata:
            labels:
              app: fastapi
         spec:
            containers:
            - name: fastapi
              image: fastapi-app:latest
              ports:
              - containerPort: 8000
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: fastapi-service
    spec:
      selector:
         app: fastapi
      ports:
      - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 8000
      type: LoadBalancer
    ```

2. **Deploy to your Kubernetes cluster:**

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment.yaml
    ```

3. **Access the service:**
    - If using Minikube: `minikube service fastapi-service`
    - Otherwise, use the external IP provided by your cloud provider.

---

## 🔁 CI/CD with GitHub Actions (Coming Soon)

A GitHub Actions workflow will soon be added to automate:

- ✅ Code linting and formatting
- ✅ Test execution
- ✅ Docker image build & push (DockerHub or GitHub Container Registry)
- ✅ Kubernetes deployment

Stay tuned for updates!

---

**Want more?**  
Let me know if you’d like to see the actual `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` CI/CD workflow or Helm chart templates included in this repository.

Commit message:

added the requirements and modify the readme md file

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Exploring FastAPI Features Extensively

Welcome! This repository is a comprehensive exploration of the **FastAPI** web framework. Here, you'll find practical examples and best practices for building robust, high-performance APIs with FastAPI.

## 🌟 Key Features Demonstrated

- **Request validation** with Pydantic models
- **Dependency injection** for modular, testable code
- **Middleware** for request/response processing
- **Asynchronous route handling** for high concurrency
- **Authentication & Authorization** (OAuth2, JWT)
- **Background tasks** for non-blocking operations
- **WebSockets** for real-time communication
- **CORS handling** for secure cross-origin requests
- **API versioning** strategies
- **Integration with external services** (databases, third-party APIs)
- **Custom exception handling** for better error management

You'll also learn how to **run the app locally**, **containerize it with Docker**, and **deploy it on Kubernetes**.

---

## 🧪 Running the App Locally

1. **Create a virtual environment:**

    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
    ```

2. **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. **Start the FastAPI server:**

    ```bash
    uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload
    ```

4. **Access the interactive API docs:**
    - [Swagger UI](http://localhost:8000/docs)
    - [ReDoc](http://localhost:8000/redoc)

---

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

1. **Build the Docker image:**

    ```bash
    docker build -t fastapi-app .
    ```

2. **Run the Docker container:**

    ```bash
    docker run -d -p 8000:8000 fastapi-app
    ```

3. **Access the app in your browser:**
    - [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs)

---

## ☸️ Kubernetes Deployment

1. **Create a Kubernetes Deployment and Service**

    Save the following YAML as `k8s/deployment.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: apps/v1
    kind: Deployment
    metadata:
      name: fastapi-deployment
    spec:
      replicas: 2
      selector:
         matchLabels:
            app: fastapi
      template:
         metadata:
            labels:
              app: fastapi
         spec:
            containers:
            - name: fastapi
              image: fastapi-app:latest
              ports:
              - containerPort: 8000
    ---
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Service
    metadata:
      name: fastapi-service
    spec:
      selector:
         app: fastapi
      ports:
      - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 8000
      type: LoadBalancer
    ```

2. **Deploy to your Kubernetes cluster:**

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f k8s/deployment.yaml
    ```

3. **Access the service:**
    - If using Minikube: `minikube service fastapi-service`
    - Otherwise, use the external IP provided by your cloud provider.

---

## 🔁 CI/CD with GitHub Actions (Coming Soon)

A GitHub Actions workflow will soon be added to automate:

- ✅ Code linting and formatting
- ✅ Test execution
- ✅ Docker image build & push (DockerHub or GitHub Container Registry)
- ✅ Kubernetes deployment


## 🧪 Pytest Integration (Coming Soon)

Automated testing is essential for maintaining code quality and reliability. This project uses **pytest** for writing and running tests.

### How to Run Tests Locally

1. **Install test dependencies:**

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. **Run all tests:**

    ```bash
    pytest
    ```

3. **View coverage (optional):**

    ```bash
    pytest --cov=app
    ```

Test files are located in the `tests/` directory and follow the `test_*.py` naming convention.

Pytest is also integrated into the CI/CD workflow to ensure all tests pass before deployment.

Stay tuned for updates!

---

**Want more?**  
Let me know if you’d like to see the actual `.github/workflows/deploy.yml` CI/CD workflow or Helm chart templates included in this repository.
